---
title: "javascript & HTML Web Application"
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
classes: wide 
categories:
  - Post
tags:
excerpt: Building ETL Pipelines to clean, transoform and store data. 
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/pro_overlay_head.png
  overlay_filter: 0.5 
  actions:
    - label: "View The Web App" 
      url: "https://donniedata.github.io/UFOs/"
    - label: "GitHub Repo"
      url: "https://github.com/DonnieData/UFOs"
author_profile: false 

    
---


<p><b>JavaScript</b> is a well-established coding language that was originally designed to enhance HTML. It's the backbone of many popular visualization libraries, used with Python such as Plotly, and is often used to create custom dashboards. JavaScript also provides a high level of customization: the dashboards built to deliver visual data, such as maps or graphs, can be as simple or complex as needed.</p>

It is now clear the broad area of uses Javascript can be applied to. However that leads us to a more foccused question, when concerning Data Analytics & Visualization. 

> How can we use Javascript to enhance the data analysis process? 

In order to answer this question, I will be going over how ow to build a simple and customizable [Web Application]() which will allow us to <b>dynamically share data that is filterable based on user-end input using Javascript and HTML.</b> 

As aforemention, Javascript and HTML go hand-in-hand, becuase this, there are many tools at our disposal when working with HTML, namely the javasript library [D3.Js]().
D3 offers many methods that will allow our javascript to communicate with our html web page, in the form of [selections]() which are essentially additonal snippets of code that are inserted within our javascript script. 

## Reosurces 

Including the D3, reosurces needed to create our web application are : 
  - a code editor (with javascript and html packages) 
  - D3.js 
  - HTML
  - Javascript 
  - CSS & 
  - Bootstrap 
 

Thecomponents of this simple Web application frame-work are:
- <b>app.js</b><br> 
This will serve as the core of the application, in which our javascript code will be stored and run from. 
-<b>D3 library </b><br>
This will create a bridge between our webpage and javascript code. Allowing our application to [listen] for user input.
- <b>index.html</b><br>
Our index file will define the structure of our webpage when accessed via a web browser. 
- <b>data.js</b><br> 
In order to have data readyly available for testing and parsing, I have sample data(on UFO sightings) in [JSON]() format for easy parsing.
- <b> CSS & Bootstrap</b> <br>
These will help with the the design and responsive of the webpage components. 



## Steps 
With the main focus of this aplication and project is to share data, I will focus on the construction of the the table that will diplay the data as well as the form that will allow user input. 


- table 



- form 

- other scripts 


#Creating the app 

1. 


#Defining the webpage 










## Results 





## Summary 





